







					Original Article				

				Genomics & Informatics 2004;2(1): 36-44. 




















In Silico Screening for Angiogenesis-Related Genes in Rat Astrocytes.



 Soo Young Kim,  Sae Won Lee,  Sung Yong You,  Sun Young Rha,  Kyu Won Kim 



1Division of Pharmaceutical Bioscience, College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea. qwonkim@plaza.snu.ac.kr 2Graduate Program in Bioinformatics, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea. 3Cancer Metastasis Research Center, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. 			










Abstract



		Astrocytes play supportive roles for neurons in the brain.
Recently, they have been accepted to have various functions in the vascular system as well as in the nervous system. We investigated the differential gene expression in rat astrocytes according to the oxygen tension, which is a crucial factor for angiogenesis. A cDNA microarray was performed to find the genes whose expression was sensitive to oxygen tension. We found 26 genes in the astrocyte were found and classified into 4 groups. In order to show the genes' relevancy to angiogenesis, seven of the 26 genes were investigated to see whether they have capabilities of interaction with angiogenesis-related factors in AngioDB.
Through this investigation, we found interactions of three proteins with angiogenesis-related factors. These genes were further investigated with a new focus on the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in an astrocyte based on our hypothesis that astrocytes can have effects on endothelial angiogenesis via the release of VEGF.
Collectively, we identified several genes whose expressions were dependent on the oxygen concentration of the astrocyte.
Furthermore, the relevancy of astrocytes to angiogenesis was investigated using preexisting information of AngioDB, and suggested a possible signaling pathway for VEGF expression in the aspects of brain endothelial angiogenesis by astrocytes.		


Keywords:
astrocytes; cDNA microarray; angiogenesis; AngioDB 





