







					Original Article				

				Genomics & Informatics 2010;8(3): 142-149. 









		
							DOI: https://doi.org/10.5808/gi.2010.8.3.142

							
			
	










Joint Identification of Multiple Genetic Variants of Obesity in a Korean Genome-wide Association Study.



 Sohee Oh,  Seoae Cho,  Taesung Park 



1Department of Statistics, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-747, Korea. tspark@stats.snu.ac.kr 2Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, USA. 			










Abstract



		In recent years, genome-wide association (GWA) studies have successfully led to many discoveries of genetic variants affecting common complex traits, including height, blood pressure, and diabetes. Although GWA studies have made much progress in finding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with many complex traits, such SNPs have been shown to explain only a very small proportion of the underlying genetic variance of complex traits. This is partly due to that fact that most current GWA studies have relied on single-marker approaches that identify single genetic factors individually and have limitations in considering the joint effects of multiple genetic factors on complex traits. Joint identification of multiple genetic factors would be more powerful and provide a better prediction of complex traits, since it utilizes combined information across variants. Recently, a new statistical method for joint identification of genetic variants for common complex traits via the elastic-net regularization method was proposed. In this study, we applied this joint identification approach to a large-scale GWA dataset (i.e., 8842 samples and 327,872 SNPs) in order to identify genetic variants of obesity for the Korean population. In addition, in order to test for the biological significance of the jointly identified SNPs, gene ontology and pathway enrichment analyses were further conducted.		


Keywords:
genome-wide association study; elastic-net regularization method; obesity 





